In Re: TCI 2 Holdings, LLC, et al.
Case No.: 09-13654 (JHW)
See Exhibit A for List of Affiliated Debtors
Debtor(s) Chapter 11
NOTICE OF MEETING OF LARGEST UNSECURED CREDITORS
The above-referenced debtor(s) is the subject of a pending case under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code.
Pursuant to Bankruptcy Code Section 1102, the United States Trustee seeks to appoint a
committee representative of the unsecured creditors listed in the case. According to information
supplied to our Office, it appears that you may be one of the largest unsecured creditors.
An organizational meeting for the purpose of forming an Official Unsecured Creditors'
Committee has been scheduled for:
Date: Friday, March 13, 2009 at 2:00 p.m.
Location: United States Trustee’s Office
st 
One Newark Center, 21Floor, Room 2106
Newark, NJ 07102
The United States Trustee seeks to appoint a Committee in this case consisting of
creditors who are willing to serve on such Committee. To be considered for appointment on this
Committee, you must complete and submit the annexed Questionnaire to this office via facsimile
at (973) 645-5993. It is important that you personally attend the formation meeting, as personal
attendance will be considered in appointing members to the Committee, should one be formed.
If you wish to serve on the Committee, but due to extraordinary circumstances are unable
to attend the meeting, you must provide a written explanation of the reason(s) for your inability
to attend prior to the date set for the formation meeting along with the completed Questionnaire.
If your attorney or someone else representing you will attend the meeting in your place, such
person must submit your written proxy authorizing him or her to act on your behalf before the
meeting, together with your completed Questionnaire and written statement explaining why you
are unable to attend personally. In no event will anyone be selected to serve on the Committee
who has not completed a Questionnaire prior to the conclusion of the scheduled formation
meeting.
The Unsecured Creditors' Committee has a vital role in Chapter 11 proceedings and for
that reason your interest and consideration is solicited.
Dated: March 9, 2009
cc: Counsel for Debtor(s): Charles A. Stanziale, Jr., Esq.
Case Attorney: Jeffrey M. Sponder, Esq.
CREDITORS' COMMITTEE INFORMATION SHEET
Chapter 11 Proceedings Generally — After the commencement of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy case,
the debtor continues to operate its business as a "debtor in possession," unless it is subsequently
shown that a trustee should be appointed. Most actions to recover or enforce pre-bankruptcy
claims against the debtor are automatically stayed under Bankruptcy Code Section 362.
Bankruptcy Code Section 1121 states that the debtor has the exclusive right to file a plan
of reorganization for 120 days after the entry of the order for relief, unless the bankruptcy court
approves a longer or shorter exclusivity period. Following the expiration of this period, or if
certain other conditions are met, any party in interest, including a creditors' committee, may file
a plan of reorganization. Typically, debtors attempt to negotiate the terms of the plan of
reorganization with their creditors.
A plan of reorganization can modify the rights of any class of creditors and can be
confirmed by the bankruptcy court over the objections of one or more classes of creditors,
provided that such creditors receive under the plan at least as much as they would receive in a
Chapter 7 liquidation. If the bankruptcy court does not confirm a plan of reorganization, the
Chapter 11 case may be converted to a Chapter 7 liquidation case or it may be dismissed.
Purpose of Unsecured Creditors' Committee — To increase creditor participation in the Chapter
11 case, Bankruptcy Code Section 1102 requires that the United States Trustee appoint a
committee of unsecured creditors (the "Committee") as soon as practical after the order for relief
has been entered. The Committee ordinarily consists of those creditors who are willing to serve
and hold the seven largest claims against the debtor which are representative of the creditor
body. According to a list filed by the debtor(s) your claim appears to be one of the twenty
largest unsecured claims against the debtor. You may, therefore, be eligible to serve on the
Committee. Note, however, that there must be at least three unsecured creditors willing to serve
before a Committee can be formed.
Powers and Duties of Unsecured Creditors' Committee — Members of the Committee are
fiduciaries who represent all unsecured creditors as a group without regard to the types of claims
which individual unsecured creditors hold against the debtor. Bankruptcy Code Section 1103
provides that the Committee may consult with the debtor, investigate the debtor and its business
operations, and participate in the formulation of a plan of reorganization. The Committee may
also perform such other services in accordance with the interests of the unsecured creditors
whom it represents.
Employment of Professionals — Bankruptcy Code Section 1103 provides that the Committee
may, subject to the bankruptcy court's approval, employ one or more attorneys, accountants or
other professionals to represent or perform services for the Committee. The employment of such
professionals must occur at a scheduled meeting of the Committee at which a majority of the
Committee members are present. Professionals retained by the Committee may be compensated
from the assets of the bankruptcy estate pursuant to Bankruptcy Code Section 330. Applications
for the payment of professional fees are monitored by the Office of the United States Trustee and
are subject to court approval. In addition, the Committee should carefully review all fee
applications and object to any excessive professional fees.
Other Matters — The Committee must select a chairperson and should adopt bylaws. As a party
in interest, the Committee may be heard on most issues arising in the bankruptcy case. Federal
Rule of Bankruptcy Procedure 2002 requires that the Committee (or its authorized agent) receive
all notices concerning motions and hearings in the bankruptcy case.
Should you have any additional questions concerning the Committee or your potential
membership on the Committee please contact Jeffrey M. Sponder at the Office of the United
States Trustee.
Rev. 03/98
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRUSTEE
One Newark Center, Suite 2100, Newark, NJ 07102
Telephone: (973) 645-3014 Fax: (973) 645-5993
OFFICIAL UNSECURED CREDITORS' COMMITTEE QUESTIONNAIRE
IN THE MATTER OF: TCI 2 Holdings, LLC, et al.
Case No: 09-13654 (JHW)
See Exhibit A for List of Affiliated Debtors
I OR MY COMPANY IS AN UNSECURED CREDITOR: (if more than one debtor; which debtor?)
YOUR FULL NAME:
Note: If you are an attorney for or representative of the creditor, your proxy must be attached to this form.
COMPANY NAME:
ADDRESS:
(If individual — please give home address)
CITY/STATE: ZIP CODE:
PHONE: ( ) FAX: ( )
AMOUNT OF UNSECURED CLAIM: $
Give a brief description of the nature of your claim(s). If any of the claim(s) were acquired after the bankruptcy
filing, set forth when the claim(s) were acquired and the consideration paid in comparison to the face amount of
each claim.
1. Are you, or the company you represent, in any way "affiliated" with debtor(s) within the meaning of
Bankruptcy Code Section 101(2)? Yes ( ) No ( )
2. Do you, or the company you represent, engage in a business which directly or indirectly competes with any of
the businesses of the debtor(s)? Yes ( ) No ( )
3. Have you ever been an officer, director, agent, representative or employee of the debtor(s)?
Yes ( ) No ( )
4. As of the petition date, did you own any equity interests in the debtor(s)?
Yes ( ) No ( )
5. Was any of the unsecured claim you are asserting acquired after the bankruptcy filing?
Yes ( ) No ( )
6. Are you eligible and willing to serve on the unsecured creditor's committee?
Yes ( ) No ( )
I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the above answers to this questionnaire are true and
correct.
Signature
Dated:
Title
TCI 2 Holdin Attn: Accounting/Legal Dept gs, LLC, et al.
Case No. 09-13654 (JHW)
See Exhibit A for List of Affiliated Debtors
EXHIBIT A
TCI 2 Holdings, LLC, et al. - List of Filing Entities
09-13654 (JHW) - TCI 2 Holdings, LLC
09-13655 (JHW) - Trump Entertainment Resorts, Inc.
09-13656 (JHW) - Trump Entertainment Resorts Holding, L.P.
09-13658 (JHW) - Trump Entertainment Resorts Funding, Inc.
09-13659 (JHW) - Trump Entertainment Resorts Development Company
09-13660 (JHW) - Trump Taj Mahal Associates, LLC
09-13661 (JHW) - Trump Plaza Associates, LLC
09-13662 (JHW) - Trump Marina Associates, LLC
09-13663 (JHW) - TER Management Co., LLC
09-13664 (JHW) - TER Development Corp., LLC