Endocrine Disruptors and Testis Development
Project Scope
Declines in human and animal male fertility
Grant Title and Principal Investigator
have been observed in recent years by
several researchers. Possibly relatedEndocrine Disruptors and Testis Development
declines also have been observed in sperm
Michael K. Skinner – Center for Reproductive Biology,
concentrations and related indicators of
Washington State University, Pullman, WA
semen quality. Rates of testicular cancer and
EPA STAR Grant #R827405
congenital abnormalities such as
cryptorchidism and hypospadias also appear
to be increasing. The declines in semen
Key Findings and Implications
quality vary regionally, suggesting an
association with exposure to endocrine• An embryonic testis organ culture system was
disrupting chemicals (EDCs), which candeveloped to assess the effects of endocrine disruptors
influence normal sex determination, testison organ morphogenesis and tissue function. Methods
development, and sperm viability. Thealso were developed to assess transforming growth
objective of this grant was to develop a betterfactor (TGF) and neurotropin (NT) gene expression and
understanding of how endocrine disruptorsgene product levels.
affect testis development and function in• Endocrine disruptors (e.g., methoxychlor [MXC] and
mammals.vinclozolin) were found to alter early embryonic testis
development when maternal exposures occurred at the
The development of the testis requires thetime of fetal sex determination and testis morpho-
coordination of the growth and differentiationgenesis.
of several cell types. The testis is formed• In vivo exposure of gestating rats to MXC
initially from an undifferentiated bipotentialdemonstrated a heritable reduction in sperm function
gonad. The first sign of male development isand increased spermatogenic cell apoptosis affecting
the differentiation of precursor Sertoli cells,males in generations F1 through F4. Studies show that
which then aggregate with germ cells andthis heritable effect may be associated with alteration of
undergo a transition from mesenchyme tothe DNA methylation patterns in male germ cell
epithelia to form testicular cords. Anotherprecursors.
characteristic of the development of the testis
after the formation of cords is rapid growthPublications include ten peer reviewed articles.
compared to the analogous ovarian
precursor. The peak of Sertoli cell
Project Period: August 1999 to July 2002
proliferation occurs just before birth, and cell
proliferation in the embryonic and early
postnatal periods is crucial for establishing
the mature adult size of the testis. In addition, this proliferation is necessary for reproductive function, in
order to maintain a sufficient population of sperm-producing Sertoli cells during adulthood.
Preliminary research indicates that two families of paracrine growth factors directly influence testis
development and function. Members of the transforming growth factor family (for example, TGF-")
appear to be critical for embryonic testis growth, and at least one neurotropin (neurotropin 3 or NT3)
appears to have a critical role in the morphogenesis of testis development. Abnormal testis development
and male infertility caused by endocrine disruptors may, in part, be mediated through pathways involving
these factors.
Thus, the hypothess initially tested under this grant was that endocrine distruptors affect locally produced
paracrine growth factors that are essential for testicular cell growth and differentiation during embryonic
and postnatal development. The adverse developmental effects can later manifest themselves as
reduced male fertility and sperm production. Experiments investigated the effects of endocrine disruptors
on TGFs and neurotropins during testis development effects on male fertility. Environmental agents with
estrogenic activity (i.e., methoxychlor [MXC], a general use organochlorine pesticide) and antiandrogenic
activity (i.e., vinclozoline, a selective contact fungicide) were assessed using a rat embryonic testis organ
culture system and a rat in vivo model.
1
Project Results and Implications
Treatment of gestating mothers had no major effect on fetal sex determination or gross testis histology at
any time during development. However, animals exposed in utero between embryonic day 8 (E8) and
E15 experienced pubertal and adult spermatogenic defects in the F1 generation. Treated animals also
had an increase in spermatogenic cell apoptosis (programmed cell death). Similar results were observed
at postnatal day 20 (P20) or P60 for MCX and vinclozoline. In addition to this decreased spermatogenic
cell survival, sperm motility was impaired and morphology was abnormal. Interestingly, animals exposed
in utero to the same dose of endocrine disruptor later in development (E25-E20) had no spermatogenic
cell defects. This finding is consistent with the occurrence of critical processes such as germ cell DNA
remethylation, cord formation, and sex determination during the E10-E15 period, which are complete after
E15.
These studies has provided insight into the mechanisms by which endocrine disruptors influence testis
growth and function. One key observation was the transgenerational effects of a transient in utero
exposure to the endocrine disruptors MXC and vinclozolin on testis function and gametogenesis. In
particular, these studies demonstrated the ability of MXC and vinclozolin to promote a transgenerational
phenotype in spermatogenic cells
Additional experiments were conducted that demonstrated the effects of exposure of endocrine disruptors
on the F1 offspring could be passed to subsequent generations. When the male rats of the F2 generation
(derived from the animals discussed above) were examined, the same increased apoptosis rate in
spermatogenesc cells was identified as the F1 generation. Specifically, a three- to five-fold increase in
apoptosis was observed in F2 rats at maturity. Also, an approximately 20 percent decrease in sperm
motility and forward movement also was observed. These experiments show that EDC exposures to a
gestating dam at the critical period of fetal sex determination and testis morphogenesis (i.e., cord
formation) appears to cause a germline effect, i.e., a decrease in spermatogenic capacity and sperm
viability that seems to be heritable in the male. This experiment was repeated with four different gestating
mothers, and similar results were observed through the F4 generation. An outcross of an affected treated
male with a wild type untreated female slightly reduced the magnitude of the effect, but the basic feature
of the phenotype (i.e., increased spermatogenic apoptosis) remained.
Researchers postulated that the transgenerational effect of maternal EDC exposures male
spermatogenesis arises through disruption of DNA methylation in the male germline. This hypothesis
was investigated by exposing gestating dams to 100 mg/kg MXC from E8-E15, and collecting testes for
analysis on P6. DNA was isolated and methylation state determined with methylation-sensitive restriction
enzymes and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods. A number of PCR products with altered
methylation patterns were detected in MXC-treated cells. This observation further supports the proposal
that the epigenetic effects of MXC on spermatogenesis are mediated by changes in DNA methylation.
Relevance to ORD’s Multi-Year Research Plan
This project contributes to all three of ORD’s Multi-Year Plan long-term goals (LTGs 1-3), in particular
(1) providing a better understanding of the science underlying the effects and assessment of
endocrine disruptors, (2) determining the extent of the impact of endocrine disruptors on humans and
wildlife, and (3) supporting EPA’s screening and testing program. More specifically, the results
address the effects of early developmental exposure to endocrine disrupting pesticides on
reproductive function in adults, toxicant-induced alterations in mammalian reproductive development,
dose response relationships, critical periods of exposure, in vivo tissue levels of the active toxicant, in
vivo and in vitro mechanisms of action, androgenic and anti-androgenic activity, the effects of
endocrine disruptors on growth factors and receptors that control spermatogenesis and growth and
development of the testis, and in vitro and in vivo assessment methods.
2
Investigators
Michael K. Skinner – Center for Reproductive Biology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
Andrea S. Cupp - Center for Reproductive Biology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
Elena Levine - Center for Reproductive Biology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
For More Information
Center for Reproductive Biology
http://www.crb.wsu.edu/3FacultyPages/Skinner.html
Skinner Laboratory
http://www.skinner.wsu.edu/
NCER Project Abstract and Reports:
http://cfpub2.epa.gov/ncer_abstracts/index.cfm/fuseaction/display.abstractDetail/abstract/992/report/0
3