CHAPTER 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 5 Table of Contents......................................................................................................5-i
5.0 Mitigation and Unavoidable Impacts............................................................................. 5-1
5.1 Mitigation Measures ....................................................................................................... 5-4
5.2 Unavoidable Adverse Impacts........................................................................................ 5-5
5.3 Irreversible and Irretrievable Commitment of Resources .............................................. 5-6
5-i
5.0 MITIGATION AND UNAVOIDABLE IMPACTS
Ecological Impacts Summary of the Preferred Alternatives
The management measures in preferred alternative suite 4: Research Set Aside Allowing
Small Directed LCS Fishery, are not likely to have significant adverse ecological impacts to
target and non-target species. All issues considered are either predicted to result in neutral or
positive ecological impacts. The preferred alternative suite was designed to reduce mortality of
shark species based on the results of previous shark assessments (for a thorough description of
the most recent assessments, please refer to Chapter 3). The preferred alternative suite was also
designed to reduce mortality of sea turtles and other protected species.
In alternative suite 4, the Quotas/Species Complexes measure would have positive
ecological impacts on all shark species. Establishing the quotas and species complexes as
described in alternative suite 4 would maintain a level of fishing effort that would allow sandbar
shark stocks to rebuild and end overfishing of this stock as well as maintain the current status of
blacktip sharks which are not overfished. Allocating the sandbar quota solely among vessels
operating within a research fishery while allowing non-sandbar LCS to be caught by vessels
operating within and outside a research fishery, was constructed to maintain proper quota levels
in order to rebuild these species based on recommendations from the most recent LCS stock
assessment. Structuring the fishery in this way would continue to provide valuable data on these
shark stocks necessary for the effective management of these species while still allowing a
limited number of vessels to remain active in the fishery.
In alternative suite 4, the Retention Limits measure would have positive ecological
impacts on sandbar and dusky sharks. Only vessels participating in the research fishery would
be allowed to land sandbar sharks. This reduction in fishing effort is anticipated to yield an 84
percent decrease in sandbar landings. Even though discards of sandbar sharks could occur after
the sandbar quota is reached and non-sandbar LCS are still being targeted, this would be offset
by the proposed sandbar shark quota reduction of 82 percent compared to the status quo, which
would keep all landings plus discards of sandbar sharks below the recommended sandbar TAC of
116 mt dw. Since the vessels participating in the research fishery would be directing on sharks,
it is assumed that discards of dusky sharks would occur. However, the number of PLL vessels
that can land sandbar sharks would be limited by the research fishery, so it is anticipated that the
PLL vessels would not set BLL gear for sharks, leading to an anticipated 72 percent decrease of
dusky shark discards compared to the status quo.
The Retention Limits measure would have neutral ecological impacts for non-sandbar
LCS and porbeagle sharks. Since all vessels with incidental or directed shark permits could
target non-sandbar LCS, but under a reduced quota compared to the status quo, this is anticipated
to result in a 7 percent decrease in non-sandbar LCS landings. Retention limits of non-sandbar
LCS for incidental permit holders are larger than past retention limits. Therefore, discards of
non-sandbar LCS are not anticipated to occur for incidental permit holders, leading to an
anticipated 72 percent decrease in non-sandbar LCS discards. Possession and landing of
porbeagle sharks would be prohibited in commercial and recreational sectors. This prohibition,
5-1
coupled with reductions in the amount of effort with BLL gear would not change the numbers of
porbeagle landed, as these sharks are primarily targeted with PLL gear and the United States has
had minimal landings of this species.
In alternative suite 4, the Time/Area Closures measure would have positive ecological
impacts on target and non-target species as well as protected species, marine mammals, and
essential fish habitat. Maintaining the time/area closures as they have been implemented in
recent years would further the positive ecological effects that have been observed in reduction of
bycatch of prohibited, non-prohibited, and non-target HMS species. The closure areas specific to
BLL gear have also been effective in reducing dusky and neonate and juvenile sandbar shark
interactions and, in the Caribbean, could have positive ecological impacts to EFH, mutton
snapper, red hind, and other reef-dwelling species (see Section 4.1.3). Maintaining current
gillnet restrictions could have positive ecological impacts on endangered right whales.
In alternative suite 4, the Reporting measure would have positive ecological impacts.
Requiring that all dealer reports are actually received by the Agency in a more timely fashion
would provide more frequent reports of shark landings in order to better assess quantities of
sharks landed and whether or not a closure or other management measures are warranted to
prevent overfishing. This would decrease the likelihood that extensive overharvests of sharks
would occur. In addition, increasing observer coverage to 100 percent for vessels in the research
fishery would be used to monitor landings, bycatch, and interactions with protected resources in
near “real-time.”
In alternative suite 4, the Seasons measure would result in neutral ecological impacts.
Having one season rather than three seasons may result in most of the landings occurring early in
the year. This should not have a negative ecological impact as most pupping occurs in the spring
or early summer. Since all sandbar sharks and most of the non-sandbar LCS would be landed by
a limited number of vessels participating in the research fishery, NMFS would have some
information regarding when sandbar and non-sandbar LCS quotas would likely be reached. The
Regions measure would also result in neutral ecological impacts. Implementing one region was
chosen over maintaining three regions because, under potential reduced fishing effort, it is not
likely that maintaining regions would provide any ecological benefits for shark species, bycatch,
or protected resources.
In the preferred alternative suite, the Recreational measures would result in positive
ecological impacts. Requiring recreational anglers to possess species that are easy to identify
while prohibiting retention of species that are frequently misidentified with sandbar and dusky
sharks, would remove the possibility that a recreational angler might misidentify and actually
land a species that is overfished or experiencing overfishing. This would decrease the possibility
that sandbar, dusky, and porbeagle sharks are landed, as they are sometimes mistaken for species
that are not overfished or experiencing overfishing.
Alternative suite 4 would result in positive ecological impacts to protected resources and
EFH. The Quotas/Species Complexes and Retention Limits measures would significantly reduce
the number of trips, thus reducing fishing effort. These measures, in combination with other
measures such as Reporting and increasing observer coverage for the research fishery, may result
5-2
in increased data collection on protected resources and EFH. In addition, the reduction in usage
of BLL gear would reduce impacts to complex habitats, such as coral reefs in the Caribbean or
areas with soft corals in the Gulf of Mexico if these are areas in which sharks would be targeted.
Social and Economic Impacts Summary of the Preferred Alternatives
All management measures in preferred alternative suite 4: Research Set Aside Allowing
Small Directed LSC Fishery, are likely to have neutral or negative economic impacts on
fishermen and the associated communities. However, NMFS believes that alternative suite 4,
strikes a balance between positive ecological impacts that must be achieved to rebuild stocks and
end overfishing while minimizing the severity of economic impacts that will occur as a result.
In alternative suite 4, the Quotas/Species Complexes and Retention Limits measures
would have negative economic consequences for fishermen. Based on the limited number of
boats that could fish for sandbar sharks in the research shark fishery, most current directed and
incidental permit holders would be prohibited from landing sandbar sharks. However, directed
and incidental permit holders outside the research fishery would still be able to land non-sandbar
LCS, SCS, and pelagic shark species.
The Time/Area Closures measure in the preferred alternative suite would have neutral to
negative economic consequences. This measure would maintain the status quo in addition to
implementing 8 additional MPA closures in the South Atlantic. These additional 8 MPAs would
be closed to BLL gear which could have negative economic impacts. However, the overall
impact of these closures in comparison to other measures being preferred by this alternative,
such as reduced quotas and retention limits, is anticipated to be minor.
In alternative suite 4, the Reporting measures would have neutral economic impacts.
Shark dealers would still be required to submit landings reports twice a month. Additional
burden is not expected as a result of changing the pertinent date of post-marking to receipt by the
Agency.
The, Seasons and Regions measures in alternative suite 4, would result in negative
economic impacts to fishermen and dealers in the North Atlantic region. Opening the seasons on
January 1, in all regions would provide benefits to vessels in the South Atlantic and Gulf of
Mexico regions as a larger variety of LCS and SCS are present there year-round. The North
Atlantic fishermen may have to redistribute effort to another region which may not be cost
effective with reduced quotas and retention limits for sandbar and non-sandbar LCS.
The Recreational measures would result in negative economic impacts. Recreational
fishermen may not be as willing to go shark fishing if the number of species that can be retained
is reduced and Charter/headboat operators may see a reduction in the amount of charters that
customers are willing to hire. This would be especially true in areas where blacktip sharks are
more frequently encountered, as well as areas where other sandbar and dusky look-alike sharks
are frequently encountered.
5-3
5.1 Mitigation Measures
No mitigation measures were specifically considered for the preferred alternative suite,
Alternative suite 4 and its corresponding management measures regarding Quotas/Species
Complexes, Retention Limits, Time/Area Closures, Reporting, Seasons, Regions, Recreational
Measures, and Protected Resources and EFH. This is because the preferred alternative suite was
specifically selected to mitigate any potential adverse impacts. As a result, mitigation was
explicitly addressed in the analyses conducted for selecting the preferred alternative suite in
other Sections of this DEIS including Chapters 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9. NMFS would monitor the
impacts of the management measures in the preferred alternative suite and would consider other
mitigation measures in the future as necessary.
As stated above, mitigation measures were explicitly addressed in the analyses conducted
for selecting the management measures in the preferred alternative suite. For example, in
analyzing possible quotas and retention limits, the preferred research fishery approach was
selected because it may balance the need to end overfishing based on recent assessments, while
allowing a limited number of vessels to direct on sharks and provide scientific data on the status
of shark stocks for future management actions. To mitigate some of these impacts, directed and
incidental permit holders outside of the research fishery would still be allowed to land non-
sandbar LCS, SCS, and pelagic sharks. The quotas and retention limits proposed in the preferred
alternative suite complies with the mandate to end overfishing, while still providing a reasonable
opportunity to target sharks and harvest the allocated quota. It also provides additional
information on shark species, bycatch, protected resources, and EFH which are all necessary for
management of the fishery.
Similarly, for time/area closures, other than implementing the 8 MPAs at the request of
the SAFMC, NMFS is maintaining the current time/area closures and has opted not to implement
additional large closures that were considered an option to reduce overall fishing mortality.
For dealer reporting, requiring all dealer reports to be received by the Agency within ten
days of the end of the reporting period would provide clarity and eliminate ambiguities regarding
late reporting, without imposing additional, more stringent reporting requirements that were also
considered an option in other alternative suites.
For seasons, the preferred measure to open on January 1 and close within 5 days notice of
any quota being 80 percent filled may balance the need to predict landings for non-research
vessels with the security of knowing what the research vessels are landing. In addition,
implementing one region was chosen over maintaining three regions because it is not likely that
maintaining regions would provide any ecological benefits for shark species, bycatch, or
protected resources. Finally, requiring recreational anglers to land species that are easily
identifiable is proposed to balance the need to end overfishing with the needs of the recreational
constituency.
In summary, while many of the actions taken in this amendment impose additional
restrictions on the shark fishery, NMFS specifically selected alternatives that minimize economic
impacts while accomplishing the mandate to end overfishing and implement a rebuilding plan for
overfished shark stocks.
5-4
5.2 Unavoidable Adverse Impacts
In general, there are no unavoidable adverse impacts expected as a result of the preferred
alternative suite and corresponding management measures of Time/Area Closures, Reporting,
Seasons, Regions, Recreational Measures, and Protected Resources and EFH. NMFS would
continue to monitor the impact of the management measures in the preferred alternative suite and
would propose additional management measures, as necessary, to avoid any unanticipated
adverse impacts.
However, there are unavoidable adverse socioeconomic impacts as a result of the
preferred alternative suite and corresponding management measures of Quotas/Species
Complexes and Retention Limits. NMFS must administer and operate under the National
Standards of the Magnuson-Stevens Act which includes a mandate to prevent overfishing and
rebuild overfished stocks. In trying to maintain shark stocks and meet the Magnuson-Stevens
Act mandate of ending overfishing, NMFS would significantly reduce fishing effort under the
preferred alternative suite. This might result in directed and incidental shark permit holders and
dealers redirecting to other fisheries and/or leaving the fishing industry due to lowered quotas
and thus decreased effort and landings. Participants in recreational shark fisheries would
experience negative economic impacts as a result of reducing the number of sharks that could be
legally landed. Charter/Headboat operators would be most affected as a result of these measures
as they may see a reduction in the number of charters that customers are willing to hire. In
addition, reporting burden would be increased significantly for Atlantic shark dealers as a result
of this alternative suite resulting in negative economic impacts. While the increased reporting
burden would not impact shark dealer expenditures per se, it would result in more time spent
submitting dealer reports, which represents an opportunity cost for fishermen since that would be
time they could not spend conducting other activities related to their business. In the analyses
for selecting the preferred alternative suite, NMFS had determined that the management
measures in alternative suite 4 are necessary in order to comply with the Magnuson-Stevens Act
mandate to end overfishing. In addition, the preferred alternative suite has been determined to be
the most feasible alternative to rebuild shark stocks according to the most recent assessments.
As described above, in aggregate, the preferred alternative suite and its corresponding
management measures are expected to have positive or neutral conservation benefits for shark
species, bycatch species, and protected resources. This is because the preferred alternative suite
was specifically selected to mitigate any potential adverse impacts. Any resulting economic or
social impacts, beyond those described above, are unavoidable.
5-5
5.3 Irreversible and Irretrievable Commitment of Resources
The management measures in the preferred alternative suite would not result in any
irreversible and irretrievable commitment of resources. There may be some minor ecological
impacts because the Atlantic shark fishery would still remain open, however, the Agency expects
fishing effort and bycatch levels to decrease considerably because of the reduced quotas and
retention limits being proposed. The preferred alternative suite would increase observer
coverage levels and provide more documentation of interactions with bycatch and protected
resources. These data would assist the Agency in developing additional management measures
in the future that may further reduce any deleterious impacts from shark fisheries on bycatch and
protected resources.
5-6
5-7