Comptroller General
of the United States
United States General Accounting Office
Washington, DC 20548
Decision
Matter of: Cybernet Systems Corporation
File: B-292600
Date: September 30, 2003
Charles J. Jacobus for the protester.
Dinah Stevens, Esq., Administrative Office of the United States Courts, for the
agency.
Linda S. Lebowitz, Esq., Office of the General Counsel, GAO, participated in the
preparation of the decision.
DIGEST
Agency reasonably rejected the protester’s proposal as technically unacceptable
where the firm failed to provide in its proposal required hardware and third-party
software certifications.
DECISION
Cybernet Systems Corporation protests the rejection of its proposal as technically
unacceptable under request for proposals (RFP) No. USCA-03-R-0045, issued by the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts for Linux operating system and
associated software (referred to as “Linux distribution,” RFP § C.4, at 4) and
technical assistance and support. Cybernet argues that its proposal was
unreasonably rejected as technically unacceptable.
We deny the protest.
The RFP was issued on May 21, 2003, and contemplated the award of an
indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract for the base period and six 1-year
option periods. The RFP contained requirements for hardware and third-party
software certifications. With respect to the hardware certification, the RFP stated
that the
Linux distribution supported by this contract will be run on hardware
procured via a separate procurement vehicle. The Contractor must
certify that HP [Hewlett Packard] supports the Contractor’s Linux
distribution on the following [six identified] platforms . . . .
The Contractor shall also support these platforms and configurations
on the offered Linux distribution.
HP-Contractor support of the Linux distribution in this context means
that the Linux distributor has made reciprocal arrangements with HP
so that the Linux distributor and HP will work together to resolve any
operating system/hardware problems.
RFP § C.4.1.3.1, at 5-6.
With respect to third-party software certifications, the RFP stated that the
applications developed by the Judiciary depend on several third-party
products. The Contractor shall demonstrate that the following list of
[eight] independent software vendors have obtained certifications for,
and support their products under, the Linux distribution being offered.
RFP § C.4.1.3.2, at 6.
The RFP instructed that an offeror “shall provide [in its proposal] the certifications
1 
required in Section C.4.1.3.” RFP § L.3, at 37. The RFP further stated that proposals
would be evaluated for technical compliance, technical excellence, and price. As
relevant here, under the technical compliance evaluation factor, the RFP provided
that an offeror’s proposal would be evaluated for full compliance with the RFP’s
minimum mandatory requirements; for a proposal to be considered technically
compliant, the RFP mandated that the offeror provide in its proposal all required
certifications. RFP § M.1, at 43.
Cybernet proposed a “[specific name omitted] Linux operating system product
(software distribution) with updates and technical support . . . meeting all of [the
agency’s] requirements.” Cybernet Technical Proposal at 3. Regarding the RFP’s
hardware certification, Cybernet stated that the
Linux distribution supported by this contract will be certified by
Cybernet to run on hardware procured via a separate procurement
vehicle. Cybernet certifies that HP . . . models [as listed in the RFP]
support the [Cybernet proposed] Linux distribution . . . .
1 
Amendment No. 2 permitted an offeror up to 2 weeks from the proposal closing
time to submit any third-party software certifications not in its possession at the
closing time. To the extent Cybernet believes that this amendment, for example,
gave an unfair competitive advantage to any particular competitor, there is no
evidence in the record to support Cybernet’s speculation.
Page 2 B-292600
[Cybernet’s proposed Linux operating system] will be fully tested and
supported on these platforms and configurations.
A Cybernet--HP reciprocal arrangement will ensure that [Cybernet’s
proposed Linux operating system] and HP work together to resolve any
operating system/hardware problems.
Id. at 8, 17.
Regarding the RFP’s third-party software certifications, Cybernet stated that it
has made arrangements with an Ann Arbor local teammate,
[Company A], to support the third party middleware products called
for in the [RFP]. [Company A] is partnered with [12 specified vendors]
for enterprise web-based applications. Furthermore, Cybernet has
direct relationships with [4 specified vendors] to support their
products on [the specific type of] platforms [proposed by Cybernet]
and to assure that [Cybernet’s proposed Linux operating system] works
smoothly with these vendors’ products. Cybernet will leverage
[Company A’s] relationships with [5 specified vendors] to support
these products.
Id. at 9, 17.
The agency evaluated Cybernet’s proposal as technically noncompliant,
i.e., technically unacceptable, for failing to provide the certifications required by the
RFP, as described above. In this respect, while Cybernet self-certified and/or offered
to certify that the specified HP hardware supports its proposed Linux operating
system, Cybernet did not demonstrate in its proposal that it had made any reciprocal
arrangement with HP as required by the RFP. Furthermore, while Cybernet offered
assurances that it and its teammate, Company A, have relationships with the
specified third-party software vendors, Cybernet did not demonstrate, as required by
the RFP, that these vendors have obtained certifications for, and support their
products under, the particular Linux operating system proposed by Cybernet. For
these reasons, the agency rejected Cybernet’s proposal as technically unacceptable,
advising the firm that its proposal would no longer be considered in this competition.
Cybernet challenges the evaluation and subsequent rejection of its proposal as
technically unacceptable.
In reviewing an agency’s decision to exclude a proposal from further competition,
we review the agency’s evaluation of proposals to determine whether the evaluation
was reasonable and consistent with the terms of the solicitation. Essex Electro
Eng’rs, Inc., B-284149, B-284149.2, Feb. 28, 2000, 2000 CPD ¶ 72 at 6. An offeror must
submit an initial proposal that is adequately written and that establishes its merits, or
run the risk of having its proposal rejected as technically unacceptable. An agency
Page 3 B-292600
may exclude a proposal with significant informational deficiencies from further
consideration whether the deficiencies are attributable to omitted or merely
inadequate information addressing fundamental factors. Generally, a proposal that
is technically unacceptable as submitted and would require major revisions to
become acceptable is not required to be further included in the competitive selection
process. LaBarge Prods., Inc., B-287841, B-287841.2, Aug. 20, 2001, 2001 CPD ¶ 177
at 2.
Here, in order for a proposal to be evaluated as technically compliant, the RFP
mandated that an offeror provide in its proposal the hardware and third-party
software certifications as described in the RFP. With respect to the hardware
certification, Cybernet does not dispute that its proposal lacked the reciprocal
arrangement with HP as called for by the RFP. As a result, and consistent with the
terms of the RFP, this omission reasonably rendered Cybernet’s proposal technically
noncompliant with the terms of the RFP. To the extent Cybernet points to language
in its proposal where it self-certifies or “guarantees” compliance with the RFP’s
technical requirements, we note that this language basically reflects a “parroting”
back of the RFP language itself, which does not comport with the RFP’s specific
requirement for a reciprocal arrangement with HP. With respect to the third-party
software certifications, by amendment, the agency permitted an offeror to submit
these required certifications up to 2 weeks after the proposal closing time. Cybernet
does not dispute that while it discussed in its proposal the relationships that it and
its teammate have with specified third-party software vendors, Cybernet did not
furnish the requisite software certifications as called for by the RFP and the
amendment. Again, consistent with the terms of the RFP, Cybernet’s failure in this
regard reasonably rendered its proposal technically noncompliant. For these
reasons, we have no basis to object to the reasonableness of the agency’s rejection of
Cybernet’s proposal as technically unacceptable.
Finally, for the first time in its submissions filed with our Office, Cybernet references
various websites and printouts for HP and the software vendors as evidence that its
proposed Linux operating system will comply with the requirements of the RFP.
Even assuming, arguendo, that these items support Cybernet’s position of
compliance, this information was not included within the four corners of Cybernet’s
proposal and, as a result, was not evaluated by the agency. Because Cybernet did
not furnish in its proposal all of the information required by the RFP, Cybernet must
suffer the consequences of its failure in this regard, that being the agency’s
determination to reject its proposal as technically unacceptable. Chek F. Tan & Co.,
B-277163, Sept. 8, 1997, 97-2 CPD ¶ 66 at 5.
The protest is denied.
Anthony H. Gamboa
General Counsel
Page 4 B-292600